### Node

 A node is a machine, physical or virtual on which 
 A node is also called as minions.
A Kubernetes cluster consists of two types of resources:
    - The Master coordinates the cluster
    - Nodes are the workers that run applications

# Cluster
 A set of nodes grouped together.
 Having multiple nodes helps in sharing load as well.

Cluster status can be monitored by external addons like: Heapster, cAdvisor

### Master
 Monitors health of cluster.
 It is a node with k8s installed in it and is configured as the master.
 It watches over the other nodes and is responsible for the actual orchestration of containers on the worker nodes.
 The Master is responsible for managing the cluster.

### Nodes
A node is a VM or a physical computer that serves as a worker machine in a Kubernetes cluster. Each node has a Kubelet, which is an agent for managing the node and communicating with the Kubernetes master. The node should also have tools for handling container operations, such as containerd or Docker. A Kubernetes cluster that handles production traffic should have a minimum of three nodes.
Masters manage the cluster and the nodes that are used to host the running applications.
No more than 5000 nodes per cluster


## Pod

A Pod is the basic execution unit of a Kubernetes application. Each Pod represents a part of a workload that is running on your cluster. 110 Pods per node for Standard clusters

## Scheduler

Schedules pods into nodes based on various criteria like memory requirement, user preference if any (taint, tolerance) etc...


### When you install k8s
 you are actually installing the following components:

 - API server: frontend for k8s, users, CLI talk to API server to interact with k8s cluster

 - etcd service: distributed key-value store to manage the cluster. implements locks to ensure that there are no conflicts between the masters. This is the database where the kubeapi server saves the data

 - scheduler: distributing work/containers across multiple nodes. Watches newly created containers and assign them to nodes. Assigns pods to nodes.

 - controllers: brain behind orchestration. notices when nodes, containers or endpoints goes down. makes decision to bring up new container in such cases.

  - container runtime: underlying software used to run containers. In our case it is docker, it can be other softwares as well.

  - kublet service: agent that runs on each node in the cluster. responsible for ensuring that the containers are running in the nodes as expected.

  Docker alternatives: Rkt(rocket), CRI-O 

  The worker node must have container runtime, i.e) docker to run containers.
  The master node has kube api server that is what makes it a master.
  Similarly, the worker node has kubelet api agent that interacts with master
 
