### Node

 A node is a machine, physical or virtual on which 
 A node is also called as minions.

### Cluster
 A set of nodes grouped together.
 Having multiple nodes helps in sharing load as well.

### Master
 Monitors health of cluster.
 It is a node with k8s installed in it and is configured as the master.
 It watches over the other nodes and is responsible for the actual orchestration of containers on the worker nodes.

### When you install k8s
 you are actually installing the following components:

 - API server: frontend for k8s, users, CLI talk to API server to interact with k8s cluster

 - etcd service: distributed key-value store to manage the cluster. implements locks to ensure that there are no conflicts between the masters

 - scheduler: distributing work/containers across multiple nodes. Watches newly created containers and assign them to nodes

 - controllers: brain behind orchestration. notices when nodes, containers or endpoints goes down. makes decision to bring up new container in such cases.

  - container runtime: underlying software used to run containers. In our case it is docker, it can be other softwares as well.

  - kublet service: agent that runs on each node in the cluster. responsible for ensuring that the containers are running in the nodes as expected.

  Docker alternatives: Rkt(rocket), CRI-O 

  The worker node must have container runtime, i.e) docker to run containers.
  The master node has kube api server that is what makes it a master.
  Similarly, the worker node has kubelet api agent that interacts with master
 