### Cluster architecture

a) _Master node_: Node that manages, plane and schedule other nodes

b) _Control pane_: master node uses control pane components to do its work.

c) _etcd_: Master node's storage about the details of scheduling etc... etcd is a key value store

d) _scheduler_: identifies right node to place the container/pod on a node

e) _node controller_: onboarding new nodes, handle node unavailablity

f) _replication controller_: ensures desired number of containers keep running

g) _kube-api-server_: orchestrates all operations within cluster. monitors state of the cluster and make necessary changes. `kubectl` talks with kube-api-server. then reaches etcd and responds with the data. 1. auth 2. validate 3. retrive data 4. update etcd 5. scheduler 6.kubelet

`ps -aux | grep kube-apiserver`

h) _docker equivalents_: container d or rocket (rkt)

i) _kubelet_: agent that runs on each node in the cluster. listens for command from kube-api-server. kube-api-server periodically fetches info from kubelet to know status of node or pods.

j) _kube-proxy-service_: communication between worker nodes ensured 


### Docker - ContainerD

Docker come in early. k8s used to support only docker. 
Eventually k8s introduced CRI: Container Runtime Interface.
OCI: Open Container Initiative. Contains image spec and runtime spec. How the image should be built and how a runtime should be developed.

Docker wasn't built to support CRI standards. So, k8s introduced `dockershim`.
Docker contains: CLI, API, build, volumes, auth, security, containerd
[containerd](https://github.com/containerd/containerd): 
- is CRI compatible. 
- it is the deamon that manages container runtime.container runtime is called runc.
- ctr cli of containerd `ctr image pull  docker.io/library/redis:alpine` `ctr run redis`
- ctr is not much user friendly
- emerge `nerdctl` provides docker like cli for containerD
- `crictl` is developed and maintained by k8s community. cli for cri compatible container runtimes
- [mapping](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/tools/map-crictl-dockercli/) of docker to crictl



### Controller

Something that continually monitors the state of things in the cluster and works towards bringing the resources to a desired state.

- node controller. if a node controller does not hear the status of a node it marks as unreachable after waiting for 40s. After 5m it evicts pod and provisions them on healthy nodes.

- replication controller
- deployment controller
- namespace controller
- endpoint controller
- job controller
- cron job
- pv protection controller
- sa controller
- statefulset
- node controller
- PV binder controller

All controllers are packaged in k8s controller manager. Download and install kube controller manager.


### Kube proxy

A service is not like a pod, it does not take up proessing compute, run an image etc.. it is a virtual thing that lives in the kubernetes memory

Kube proxy runs on each node, it's job is to run on each node and everytime a new service is created, it creates the appropriate rules on each node to forward requests from service to the respective pod. ex: via IP table rules

Installation kube proxy
- download kube proxy and run it as a service.
- kubeadm tool deploys kube proxy as a daemonset ( a single pod is deployed on each node)

