# Authorization

Kube api server is the center of all operations within k8s

K8s does not maintain auth by itself, it relies on TLS or file based authentication or LDAP
If we are using file based authentication then while starting kube api server, we need to pass this file as `--basic-auth=use-pass.csv` this csv should be of the column with format `password, username, userid, groupid`
Like static password, we can also have a static token file.

*** static token and password based authentication is not recommended and deprecated since 1.19 *** 

We can modify the pod definition file for kube api server

If we have to use the username password while accessing kubeapiserver with the curl command use `-u user1:password1` while using authentication token use `--header "Authorization: Bearer tokennnn`

Consider volume mount while providing the auth file in kubeadmin setup 

RBAC is better

### External authentication providers:

LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) is a software protocol for enabling anyone to locate data about organizations, individuals and other resources such as files and devices in a network -- whether on the public Internet or on a corporate Intranet.

### General auth
- RBAC Role Based authorization
- ABAC Attribute Based auth
- Node authorization: kubelets access kube api server to get status and update status. these requests are handled by node authorizer. kubeletes are part of node group and name that are prefixed with `system:node` 
- webhook mode auth

etcd controller, kube controller manager, kube api server, kube proxy,  kubelet is secured using TLS encryption

by default all pods

### Using certification

` curl https://clustername:6443.com --key admin.key --cert admin.crt --cacert ca.crt` 

the equivalent k8s command would be

`k get pods --server clustername:6443  --client-key admin.key --certificate-authority ca.crt`

Typing this everytime would be redundant task, to make it easier, we movie this into configuration file and then specify this as the kube config option in the command. By default, kube ctrl tool looks for kubeconfig under home directory i.e) `$HOME/.kube/config`


A kube config file has:
- Cluster info
- user info
- context info: which specifies which user has access to which cluster 

Use `k config view` to view the current config or directly open `vim $HOME/.kube/config`

Alternatively to view a custom file as kubeconfig we can also use the command
`k config view --kubeconfig=mycustom-config`

To change context run `k config use context clustername@username`

### ABAC

Attribute Based Authorization is where you associate a user or set of users with a set of permissions by creating a policy file in json format. We pass this file into the API server. We create each policy file for each user or group. The kube api server must be restarted when we updated the JSON file.

### RBAC

Role Based Access Control. We define a role and then associate users to the role.

### Webhook

Used to outsource all authorization. Open Policy Agent is a tool that can be used to handle auth. Kube API can talk to this to find the auth of a user.

### Always Allow

### Always Deny


We can have multiple authorizations like `authorization-mode=Node,RBAC,Webhook`  while starting the kube api server. The authorization is handled in this order. The node authorizer handles only node requests. Whenever an access is denied it passes to the next module.
