### Admission controller

There are certain kind of auth like
- do not allow images to be pulled from public registries
- do not permit run as root user
- only permit certain capablities
- pod should always have labels

these are provided by admission controllers

 `kube-apiserver -h | grep enable-admission-plugins `

`kube-apiserver -h` we can use this to get the setting of kube-apiserver

`kubectl exec kube-apiserver-controlplane -n kube-systems  --kube-apiserver -h | grep enable-admission-plugins` 


To enable admission controllers in kubeapi-server add the flag `--enable-admission-plugins=NodeRestrictions` or if you are in kube api server manifest then update the manifest file in 

`/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml` add the flag as command


Similarly to disable use the flag `disable-admission-plugins` flag

`kubectl -> authentication -> authorization -> admission-controller` this is the order of auth


`ps -ef | grep kube-apiserver | grep admission-plugins`


There are admission controller plugins that change the behavior of k8s objects like `DefaultStorageClass` that adds a default storage class for every PVC that is created. Such admission controllers are called mutating admission controller.

Similarly, we also have validating admission controller.

Mutating admission controller is executed before validating admission controller.

### Webhook controller
admission review object is passed to admisson webhook controller.

Deploy webhook server. The server should have 2 API endpoint `validate` and `mutate`.
In the response if we get `allowed` as `true` the API is validated.

We sent patch operations in request.

After deploying the server, we configure a service using which k8s other services could communicate. 